You had PTSD.
- So I started taking
something for it.
This morning I lost
my last pill.
Damn it!
Sure about this, Sam?
- She's a threat
to everyone here,
- especially Lilly.
- Let me out of here!
Go save them.
- That's not gonna happen.
- This is private property
so I hope you have a warrant.
What about my family?
- There's another way
to save them.
Go back to
the beginning, Gavin.
Looks like a sinkhole.
I'm in that place.
I don't think the things
I've been seeing are visions.
They're memories.
- It's your last warning,
Rebecca.
Let him go.
- Oh, my God.
- The boy,
you need to find him.
Isiah is Gavin
and he needs your help.
- What do you mean
Isiah needs my help?
Everything depends on it.
You have to find him.
You have to get him to Topanga.
Hold on.
I'll be right back.
She needs you. Hurry, hurry.
We need to get Sam here
right now. She needs a doctor.
- I'll go but what happened?
What did Aldridge say?
We need to find Isiah.
Dad, I don't understand.
How could you be
from that world?
- I must have come through
the sinkhole when I was a kid.
I--I wasn't alone.
You think Ella was with you.
We were found together,
less than a mile from here.
- You've got two seconds
to get the hell off my property
or I'm calling the police.
- Ella.
- Who are you?
Why have you been following me?
My name is Gavin Harris.
This is my daughter, Izzy.
This is Dr. Sophia Nathan.
We can explain everything.
Please, we need your help.
With what?
- I know this
is gonna sound crazy,
but somehow,
I think you're the key
to saving my family.
No...way.
Hope you're all hungry.
Again with the mushrooms?
- Hey, until they get back from
the fort with other options,
this is all we got so
- eat up, Mr. Juice Cleanse.
- Yeah, very funny.
- Hey, guys,
you're never gonna believe this
but I just saw a cow
in the woods.
Okay.
- Cattle, along with
Christianity and smallpox,
came here with the Europeans,
specifically the Spanish
in the 16th century.
Okay, what I'm trying to say is
that
there were no cows
in North America in 10,000 B.C.
- Scott.
- Yeah.
- Buddy, were you--
- Don't make this
about the weed.
The cow was there.
- I believe you.
- Thank you, Lilly.
Say there was a cow.
Who cares?
- Uh, cows make milk.
It could help us.
- If it wasn't already
eaten by a saber tooth.
- You know, you don't really
take good news very well.
Has anyone ever told you that?
Levi.
What's going on? Where's Mom?
- She's back at the village
with Ty.
They're fine but
someone else is injured.
Who?
It's a lot to explain.
Where's your dad?
I need his help.
- Are you sure
you're up for this?
Riley, I'm fine.
- Dad, you just
got off your meds.
You're gonna start
going through withdrawal.
Someone's hurt. They need me.
All right.
Then you won't mind
if I come along.
Riley.
- Consider it
on the job training.
After everything
that's happened down here,
let's just say I'm...
reconsidering med school.
Really?
Yeah.
Also, I'm not taking
no for an answer.
We should get going.
We're ready.
I know something's going on.
What aren't you telling me?
- You should come back
to the village.
You need to talk to your mom.
- Any sign of Silas and Isiah?
- No, nothing.
- Your people are
still out there looking.
Maybe they'll have better luck.
- How's Aldridge?
- She's unconscious.
I've done everything I can
but if your doctor
doesn't arrive soon,
I don't know if she'll survive.
Eve, are you okay?
Well,
that woman just told me
that Isiah grows up
to be my husband
so no, not really.
And you believe her?
- Honestly, I don't--
I don't know what to believe.
- Silas stabs Aldridge
and then takes off with Isiah.
Why would he do that if there
wasn't something else going on?
- What more can you tell us
about Isiah and Silas?
Where did they come from?
- They joined our village
a few years ago.
Silas said they fell
through another sinkhole.
That the boy's parents
didn't survive the fall.
We had no reason
not to believe him
so we took them in.
But it seems there's
more to him than we knew.
Unbelievable.
Sam, thank God you're here.
- I'm the doctor. Where is she?
- This way.
- Josh, what are
you doing here?
- Uncle Levi thought
I should come.
- He needs to hear
what Aldridge told you.
If there's even
a chance she's right,
he should know.
Mom, this is insane.
How the hell could
that kid be Dad?
- I'm just telling you
what she told me.
- Well obviously,
she's wrong.
Hold up. You don't actually
believe her, do you?
- I don't know. It's just--
- It's just what?
There's something about him.
His eyes and--and his smile.
- Mom.
- Your dad doesn't have
any memories from childhood.
And he was the same age Isiah
is now when he was adopted.
And I'm not saying
I believe it.
I'm just trying--
I'm trying to understand it.
- Hey.
She had blood in her lungs,
but Sam was able to drain it.
She's going to be okay.
Come on, she's awake.
- Have you found Isiah?
- Not yet.
Our people are still searching.
Okay.
All right, so...
when you said Isiah is Gavin--
- I understand
why you wouldn't believe me
but it's true.
How is it possible?
Gavin was born in this world.
He came to ours
through a sinkhole
in Topanga in 1988.
- That's where your dad
was adopted.
- There's a portal on top
of a mountain in Topanga.
It's open right now
and it leads to 1988.
You have to get Isiah
through it.
I was gonna do it myself
until Silas stopped me.
How do you know all of this?
It doesn't matter.
The only thing that does
is finding him and
getting him through the light.
It's on the highest peak
in the area.
No way.
I don't trust her.
- Neither did Gavin
and Izzy at first.
- Wait, you were with them?
- Yes.
Before I came down here,
we were trying to rescue you.
Are they okay?
For now.
- What does that mean,
"for now?"
- If Isiah doesn't
make it to 1988,
you and Gavin will never meet.
Josh and Izzy
will never be born.
You don't have much time.
The light is gonna close.
- When?
- Tomorrow.
- So we're just supposed
to send Isiah alone?
He'll be fine.
You already know
how it turns out.
Mom, come on, this is crazy.
- Josh, you may not
believe me now,
but when the light
starts to close, you will.
You're gonna begin to get sick.
Izzy will too.
The more it closes,
the worse it'll be.
What are you saying?
- If you don't get Isiah
through the light in time,
your children will die.
.
- So this is your
parents' house?
Yes, my adoptive parents.
I grew up here.
- And you never noticed
a sinkhole in your backyard?
Of course we did.
It was filled in not that long
after I was adopted.
Look, I'm sorry about
what happened to your family,
but what you're saying,
that we came through
that sinkhole,
that we're from the past,
it can't be true.
- I understand
what you're feeling,
but I'm telling you it is.
Have you seen
this woman before?
- No.
- Her name is Rebecca Aldridge.
She's the one
who led us to you.
- She said there's another way
to get to my family
and I think somehow,
you might know what it is.
- I'm sorry.
I wish I could help,
but I don't know anything.
- Ella, hey, I was found
on the road not far from here.
I was with a little girl.
Records at CPS said it was you.
Do you remember anything
before you were adopted?
No.
My parents told me
a reverend
discovered me nearby.
When CPS couldn't place me,
they took me in,
but they never said
anything about you.
Well, I was there.
And that's not the only thing
we have in common.
Your drawings, the hand prints,
I've seen that before.
What do you mean?
I have these flashes
of that place in the past.
You have them too, don't you?
For the last week.
- Did they start the day
the La Brea sinkhole opened?
How do you know that?
- Because the same thing
happened to me.
Only mine started when I was
flying over a sinkhole
in the Mojave.
I think somehow the sinkholes
trigger our memories--
Stop.
Please.
I appreciate you trying
to explain this to me,
but I have a life.
I have an art show in a week.
I don't have time for this.
I just want
to put this behind me.
- Ella--
- Please, you need to go.
Thank you for your time.
- Josh, hold on.
- Just give me a second.
- It's gonna be fine.
Just don't freak out.
That's easy for you to say.
You're not the one
that's gonna,
I don't know, cease to exist.
- We're not gonna
let that happen.
- Say there's a 1% chance
that all this is true.
The only way to stop it
from happening
is to find the kid
and the kid is gone.
So we'll find him.
Whatever it takes, Josh,
I'm gonna keep you
and your sister safe.
Come on. We should get going.
Silas knows these woods.
He could be anywhere.
We need to split up.
So you're gonna help us?
- I trusted Silas
and he lied to me.
If your children's lives
and Isiah's future generations
depend on stopping him,
I'm going to help.
- We've got the Jeep. We can
cover more ground that way.
- All right.
Josh and I will go with you.
- Paara and I will
search on foot.
- We should keep
an eye on Aldridge.
She's not out of the woods yet.
Okay. Hey.
You're not gonna die, okay?
Not when you're finally
starting to grow on me.
Let's go.
I wanna go home.
We need to stay here for now.
It's the only way
to keep you safe.
Why did you hurt that woman?
I had no choice.
I'm trying to protect you.
You understand that, don't you?
You're the only family I have.
I won't let anyone
take you away from me.
She said my name is Gavin.
That woman is sick.
- She thinks you're someone else.
- Who?
It doesn't matter!
You must be hungry.
Saw some blueberries outside.
They're still your favorite,
aren't they?
Be back soon.
- Tic-tac-toe.
- Would you believe me if I
told you I was letting you win?
- No.
- Hmm.
You wanna talk to her?
Go ahead.
I'll be watching.
- You have permission
to talk to me?
- I just wanted to see
if you're okay.
No, I'm not.
We can't stay here.
I told you, I'm not leaving.
Everyone knows what I did.
Don't you see
how they look at me?
- I know you're a good person,
Veronica.
Give them some time.
They'll see it too.
No, they won't.
Then change their minds.
We don't have
to be alone anymore.
Aaron's gone.
We can start over.
- Can I get
everyone's attention?
I know you all think of me
as the stoner,
which is an antiquated term,
and none of you believe
the things that I say.
Well today,
I'm gonna prove you wrong.
There is a cow out there.
And together, we can find it.
We can bring it back.
We can reap the rewards
Mother Nature has bestowed
upon this regal animal.
It will give us milk,
and cheese,
and ice cream!
So who's coming with me?
Wait--okay, show of hands.
Anybody?
- Happy hunting, Scott.
- Oh.
Guess I'll go by myself.
Let me move those branches.
- Hey, how you doing
back there?
- I was just thinking
about a week ago.
When getting into college
seemed like the most stressful
thing that could ever happen.
Now my life depends on some kid
who might be Dad.
Eve, Josh.
What's up?
Look, smoke.
Yeah, let's check it out.
There's no one here.
Yeah, not now.
Fire looks like
it was just put out.
- We don't even know
if it was them.
Yes, we do.
I saw Silas
carrying this earlier.
Maybe they're still close by.
Look.
These tracks.
Looks like they went that way.
It's too rocky to drive.
We should follow on foot.
Josh, grab the Jeep.
Meet us on the other side.
You got it.
Mom, go. I'll be fine.
Oh, no.
.
It's okay.
It's me, Josh.
Remember me?
We met at the clearing.
What are you doing here?
- Looking for you.
You need to come with me.
I wanna go home.
Why are you looking at me
like that?
- Sorry, I'm just...
making sure you're okay.
I am.
Isiah, you okay?
- Uh, we're fine.
- What the hell happened?
We heard the crash
from across the hill.
He saved me.
Oh, your wrist.
Levi, get me the first aid kit.
Mom, that cut.
It's in the exact same spot.
I know.
We should leave.
There could be more
saber tooths
and Silas is gonna
come looking for him.
- That Jeep's not gonna drive.
We'll have to walk.
Isiah, we have to go.
- What? No, I wanna
go back to my village.
- I can't take you there
right now, okay?
But I'm gonna take you
somewhere safe.
We gotta get moving.
Will you come with me?
Here, little cow.
I know you're out here
somewhere.
Scott?
Uh, what are you doing here?
Um, you said you needed help.
And you want to do that?
You helped me once.
Thought I could
return the favor.
Actually, I'm okay on my own.
- But you just made
that big speech.
Right, right.
But I was kinda, you know,
being dramatic.
It's fine, really.
Thanks though.
- You need to look
for low grass.
That's what they like to eat.
How do you know that?
I grew up on a farm in Texas.
You're not going to find
that cow without me.
Why are you really out here?
- They all think
you're just a pothead,
but...sometimes people
are judged too quickly
and I don't think that's fair.
Thanks.
I guess.
So let's prove 'em wrong.
These are Silas's tracks
and he's not alone.
At least four people.
Four?
They were headed north.
Ty, your nose.
Oh.
- Sit down.
- I'm sorry.
Tilt your head back.
This happens on occasion.
The truth is...
I'm ill.
You're dying?
Yeah.
The universe doesn't like me
to forget I'm on borrowed time.
I'm so sorry.
It's okay.
- Looks like the bleeding
stopped.
- You know, I'm usually
the one looking after people.
Thank you.
I wasn't expecting that.
Neither was I.
We should keep going.
- Topanga is about 10 miles
northwest of here.
We should make it
by the end of the day.
Where are you taking me?
- Somewhere safe,
like my mom said.
- My grandfather
will be worried about me.
I don't think I should've left.
- Why did you?
- I didn't like what he did.
He hurt someone.
- I know,
but she's going to be okay.
- He said he was trying
to protect me.
My mom says that a lot.
What about your dad?
Does he protect you too?
He tried to
but...he wasn't always
there for me...
or my mom.
They seem okay now.
Oh, no, Levi isn't my dad.
Oh, sorry.
Why would you say that?
- Because I saw them
holding hands
when I was at your clearing.
- I still can't believe
he's actually Gavin.
- Trying to wrap
my mind around it.
What are you gonna tell him?
I haven't figured it out yet.
I mean, what we're asking
him to do, to--
to leave his home
and to travel through a portal
to a place he doesn't know,
It's a lot to ask.
What other choice do we have?
Hey, Isiah,
I need to talk to you.
Should we come sit?
Okay.
- You know how you call us
The Sky People?
Truth is,
you're one of us and...
and you're not supposed
to stay here.
You're supposed to grow up
where I come from.
What do you mean?
Well, there's a light
in the sky
that's not too far from here
and it leads to
a different time
and we need you
to go through it.
- I have to leave my home?
- I know it's scary
and it's--it's really
hard to understand,
but I know every single thing
that's gonna
happen to you there.
And it's--it's gonna be great.
- I don't want to.
- I know.
But you have to. - No!
This way. Come on.
- Someone's coming.
- Come on. Come on.
Pick it up.
- I thought Paara's people
were supposed to be helping us.
- I guess Silas still has
a few loyal friends.
We gotta get moving.
.
- So what now? Ella didn't
believe anything we said.
Can you blame her?
I'm still trying
to process the fact
that you're from 10,000 B.C.
- Crazy as it is,
it's kind of a relief.
What do you mean?
- I never knew
where I came from,
why I see these things.
Now I do.
We just have to find
a way to convince Ella
what we're saying is true.
- I mean, I didn't believe you
until you dug up mom's ring
so maybe we need
some kind of proof.
Where would we find that?
Aldridge's dig site.
A lot of Ella's drawings
seem to be things
from the clearing.
If we could find
an artifact she drew,
maybe we could
convince her it's real.
- So basically,
I gave you the idea.
- I'm guessing Markman has
people guarding the dig site?
As far as I know.
- There another way
to get inside?
I'm going in.
You two stay here.
Be careful.
- Fuse must have blown.
Let's check it out.
Whatcha got there?
Mm, no idea.
One of the kids gave it to me.
But whatever it is,
it's amazing.
- How's she doing?
- Stable,
which means you and I
should get going soon.
- Not till you've
eaten something.
It's not mushroom, is it?
Definitely not.
So how are you feeling?
Up and down.
One minute, smooth sailing.
Next, it's a wave of anxiety.
But I'm getting through it.
And what about you?
I know you're worried
about Josh.
I haven't seen you look at
a guy like that since--
what's his name?
Really, Dad?
You know his name.
Kyle. Ugh.
He was no good for you.
I'm aware.
That's why
I kicked him to the curb.
- If Aldridge
is right about all this
and that's one big "if,"
it means there's a light
that leads to 1988.
If there's a way to '88,
I figured there's also
gotta be a way back home
to Mom and Andrew.
I say we stay until we find it.
- I was gonna say
the same thing.
Where is it, Silas?
Hey, what are you doing up?
- I have to go back
to your clearing.
- It's not a good idea.
You need to rest.
- Come on,
we'll take you back up.
No, I can't stay here.
- What's so important
at the clearing?
- You care about
your friend, Josh, don't you?
Yes.
- Everything I'm doing
is to make sure he lives.
Please, we have to go.
Now.
- You know the men
who are with your grandfather?
- Yes.
They'll do whatever he says.
- It's all right.
We just gotta keep moving.
What are we gonna do?
- Doesn't look like
there's another way around.
- There's a bridge
not far from here.
My people cross it
to trade with other villages.
Where is it?
- Just beyond those trees.
- Well, hold on.
If he knows about it,
then his grandfather does.
- Yeah, then we better
get there first.
Come on.
There it is.
- All right, Eve, Isiah,
you go first.
I'll be right behind you.
- Okay, we're good.
Come on over.
All right Josh, you're up.
- Don't move.
- Josh!
Drop your weapon.
All I want is my grandson.
Send him over
and I'll let 'em go.
Do it now
or I'll kill 'em both.
Please don't.
No!
The ravine ends
four miles east of here.
Bring Isiah there
or you'll never see them again.
.
Okay, so we've got low grass
but we've got no cow.
Fantastic.
- Do you wanna go back?
I am many things
but a quitter
is not one of them.
Hey, about earlier,
the car and all.
I don't think they should've
done that to you.
It wasn't cool.
- You don't think
I deserved it?
No. From what I heard,
you were kidnapped
just like Lilly.
Which you probably
don't wanna talk about.
- I've never talked about it
with anyone besides Lilly.
What happened?
- I ran away from home
when I was 14.
My mom was never around.
My stepdad and I
fought all the time
so I--I just left.
- That's young for you to be
out on your own like that.
- I guess I thought anything
was better than staying.
Where did you go?
Hitched around for a while.
Ended up in Los Angeles.
I was living on the streets
when Aaron took me.
He said he was trying to help.
It was just the two of us
for a few years.
Until you took Lilly?
- Aaron told me that God
had a plan for all of us.
By that time, I--
I believed him.
And now?
- I don't know
what to believe anymore.
Thanks for listening.
- No worries.
Did you hear that?
Nice to see you too.
It's okay, Eve.
We'll go back
to my grandfather.
He'll keep his word.
Josh and Levi will be fine.
- It's not that simple.
- Why?
- Because as soon as that light
starts to close,
my kids will become very sick.
And if you don't
make it through,
they're gonna die.
Eve.
- Paara. - Isiah.
- Are you okay?
- I'm fine.
Where are Josh and Levi?
Don't worry.
I'll figure out a way
to get us out of here.
- In case you haven't noticed,
these guys are all armed.
- We'll be all right.
Your mom and Isiah will be too.
I won't let anything
happen to her.
No, you wouldn't, would you?
What's that supposed to mean?
I know about you and my mom.
Josh, I'm sorry.
How could you?
- It was a tough time
for your mom and dad
but that's over now.
- Wait, what do you mean
it's over?
I thought it started down here.
How long has this
been going on for?
A few months
but we ended it last year.
I can't believe this.
I mean, my mom,
I get her side of things.
When she needed my dad,
he wasn't there.
You, he was your best friend.
- Look, you have every right
to be upset.
You do.
But right now,
we need to put all that aside
so we can get out of this.
You understand?
Holy crap, you were right.
- Indeed.
And I believe
the more appropriate
expression is "holy cow."
You saved her.
I did, with Veronica's help.
Really?
Absolutely.
Couldn't have done
it without her.
- As soon as that light
starts to close,
my kids will become very sick.
And if you don't
make it through,
they're gonna die.
- Dad, what's wrong?
What'd you see?
I'm with Mom.
Everything's fine.
Come on.
- I already told you--
- I know
but there's something
I need to show you.
Just give me a few minutes.
If you still don't believe me,
we'll leave.
We'll never come back.
Where did you get this?
- From an archeological
dig site.
It dates back to 10,000 B.C.
Ella, you drew it
because you were there.
I remember now.
Oh, my God.
What is it?
You were right.
I saw this rock in that world.
What are you doing?
- And someone called me
by a different name.
What was it?
Lilly.
.
- If I don't
give him Isiah back,
he's gonna kill Josh and Levi.
- We won't let that happen.
- Is there anyone
in your village
who can help us?
Silas has many friends.
I'm not sure
who I can trust right now.
- The clearing. We can go back.
We can get help.
- No, no one's
gonna wanna help me.
I'm the reason we're all
stuck down here, remember?
- No, you are the reason
we are still alive.
I'll make sure they know that.
- That sounds great, Ty,
but I can't count on it.
- Eve, you cannot
do this on your own.
We'll be back
as soon as we can.
Just promise me
you'll wait for us.
Okay.
Everyone, gather around.
Easy. Easy.
Who's this?
This is Dr. Rebecca Aldridge.
She came down here
during a second rescue attempt.
- Unfortunately, the mission
didn't go as planned.
I was the only one
who made it through
but there is hope.
- Looks like there's
another portal.
This one's in Topanga
and it leads back
to the year 1988.
- 1988?
- What?
We came down in 2021
so how is there
something opened in 1988?
- You think of time
as moving in one direction,
the past to the present.
But the truth is time
is more like a circle.
Everything's happening at once.
You lost me.
- The point is this portal
is a way out of here.
Okay, say it's true.
1988 is over
30 years off target.
- And how would we get
through the light?
- Don't we need a plane?
- No.
The light's on top
of a mountain.
You can walk through it.
- I know this is
a lot to think about,
but you have to decide quick.
The light's closing tomorrow.
Tomorrow?
- This is insane.
- I'm in.
Here, have some of this.
I can talk to my grandfather.
Tell him to let them go.
- You're very brave,
you know that?
But he won't agree to that.
Ty and Paara will be here
soon with help.
We just need to wait.
What about you two?
Thinking about
going back to 1988?
- Took me almost 20 years
to tell my father I was gay.
Going back to a time
when so many people had to hide
who they really were,
I don't think
I'm really interested in that.
- But they do have electricity
and Pizza Hut
and most importantly,
LensCrafters.
I say we take our chances.
So are you gonna go to 1988?
Well, it would be cool
to see "Die Hard"
in the movie theater,
but I haven't given up
on getting home.
Plus, this place
is full of mysteries
and I don't think I can leave
without at least solving
one or two of them.
What about you?
I've been thinking
maybe what I need
is a fresh start.
This could be my chance.
Good luck, Veronica.
Thank you.
- Yeah, there's definitely
more mysteries to solve.
Hello, Lilly.
How do you know my name?
Do you mind if I sit down?
This is for you.
There's something very
important I need you to do.
Everything okay?
- I need you to take me
to Topanga.
And we have to leave now.
- I was wearing this
when I was found.
My parents kept everything
from that day.
They thought it may
help me remember.
It never made any sense to me.
Until now.
- What is that?
- It's a map.
That woman you showed me
a picture of earlier,
I had another memory
of her giving it to me.
She said I had to go to Topanga
and bring it to
a boy named Isiah.
Oh, my God.
They're sinkhole locations.
Look at this.
Topanga, Mojave, La Brea,
Seattle.
Dad,
all the dates match perfectly.
- Yeah.
And according to this map,
the one in Seattle
is gonna open tomorrow.
Where are they, Eve?
They should be here by now.
Listen to me.
Whatever happens to me,
you get yourself
up that mountain, okay?
What are you gonna do?
Just stay hidden.
When Ty and Paara get here,
they're gonna help you, okay?
- No, Eve, wait,
you shouldn't go alone.
I don't have a choice.
I have to save my son.